.. Internet Programming with Python documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sat Nov  3 13:22:19 2012.

`Python Web Programming Workshop, August 5-9, 2013 in Chapel Hill, NC
<http://tripython.org/boot-camp/pywebpw13>`_

===============================
Python Web Programming Workshop
===============================

.. sidebar:: Table of Contents

    .. toctree::
       :maxdepth: 2

       self
       outline
       readings

August 5-9, 2013

Chapel Hill, North Carolina

`Registration now open <http://tripython.org/boot-camp/pywebpw13>`_


Overview
========

This five day workshop emphasizes network-based programming and Web
applications, how they work and how to program them in Python. Explore the
underlying principles and their expression in the Python libraries. Learn
contrasting approaches in creating applications: programming with the
low-level libraries versus using highly integrated frameworks


Prerequisites
=============

To attend this workshop you should have a working knowledge of the basic
syntax and structures of the Python programming language. You will also need
to be comfortable working at the command line to navigate a file system,
create and delete files, and execute commands. Finally, you should have some
basic knowledge of HTML.


Requirements
============

This workshop does not provide a computer laboratory. You will have to have a
portable computer in order to participate. Network access, both wired and
wireless, will be provided, but you will need to know how to operate the
network settings for your computer.

Your computer must have Python version 2.6 or 2.7 installed. No additional
libraries will be required, but we will be installing some as the workshop
progresses.

You will want to familiarize yourself with `virtualenv
<http://www.virtualenv.org/en/latest/>`_.  We will use it extensively in class
in order to keep our development environments clean and separate.


What to Expect
==============

This one-week course will cover the fundamental concepts of networked
programming in Python. You'll learn everything, starting from the sockets that
enable communications between processes and machines and the basic protocols
that govern this communication, right up to the full-stack frameworks that
enable developers to build rich applications efficiently.

Along the way, you'll learn through a combination of lecture and activity.
Historical information will be combined with exercises designed to help you
learn the Pythonic way to create programs that interact with each-other across
networks. Each module will include reading lists for more information and
ideas for projects you can use to help cement the lessons you learn after the
the class is over.

**This class is** intended to give students a solid grounding in the
fundamentals of network programming. You will gain a basic understanding of a
broad range of Pythonic tools and learn to choose the right tool for a given
task.

**This class is not** an in-depth course in any single Python web framework.
The intention is to give you the information needed to select the right
framework for your task. To that end, you will learn the basics of the
frameworks covered as well as the choices and compromises that shape them.


References
==========

`Python 2 Documentation <http://docs.python.org/2/>`_: Complete
documentation of the language.

`Python 2.7 Quick Reference <http://rgruet.free.fr/PQR27/PQR2.7.html>`_:
Dense and complete. Good for jogging your memory, but don't start here.

`Python Standard Library - Internet Protocols and Support
<http://docs.python.org/2/library/internet.html>`_: All the supported internet
protocols as implemented in Python.

`Python Module of the Week <http://pymotw.com/2/>`_: A fantastic reference for
any module in python. Examples and usage are provided throughout.

`Lecture Presentations <presentations/index.html>`_: Slides from the workshop
presentations.


Search
======

* :ref:`search`

